{
  "url": "https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs/model-tuning",
  "content": "Skip to main content\nSign in\nModels\nMore\nGemini API docs\nAPI Reference\nCookbook\nCommunity\nSolutions\nMore\nCode assistance\nMore\nShowcase\nMore\nCommunity\nMore\nGet started\nOverview\nQuickstart\nAPI keys\nLibraries\nOpenAI compatibility\nModels\nAll models\nPricing\nRate limits\nBilling info\nModel Capabilities\nText generation\nImage generation\nVideo generation\nLong context\nStructured output\nThinking\nFunction calling\nDocument understanding\nImage understanding\nVideo understanding\nAudio understanding\nCode execution\nGrounding with Google Search\nGuides\nPrompt engineering\nLive API\nContext caching\nFiles API\nToken counting\nFine-tuning\nIntro to fine-tuning\nFine-tuning tutorial\nEmbeddings\nSafety\nResources\nMigrate to Gen AI SDK\nRelease notes\nAPI troubleshooting\nAI Studio\nCloud\nPolicies\nTerms of service\nAvailable regions\nAdditional usage polices\nIntroducing Gemini 2.5 Flash, Veo 2, and updates to the Live API Learn more\nHome\nGemini API\nModels\nSend feedback\nFine-tuning with the Gemini API\nOn this page\nHow fine-tuning works\nPrepare your dataset\nFormat\nLimitations\nTraining data size\n\nPrompt design strategies such as few-shot prompting may not always produce the results you need. Fine-tuning is a process that can improve your model's performance on specific tasks or help the model adhere to specific output requirements when instructions aren't sufficient and you have a set of examples that demonstrate the outputs you want.\n\nThis page provides a conceptual overview of fine-tuning the text model behind the Gemini API text service. When you're ready to start tuning, try the fine-tuning tutorial. If you'd like a more general introduction to customizing LLMs for specific use cases, check out LLMs: Fine-tuning, distillation, and prompt engineering in the Machine Learning Crash Course.\n\nHow fine-tuning works\n\nThe goal of fine-tuning is to further improve the performance of the model for your specific task. Fine-tuning works by providing the model with a training dataset containing many examples of the task. For niche tasks, you can get significant improvements in model performance by tuning the model on a modest number of examples. This kind of model tuning is sometimes referred to as supervised fine-tuning, to distinguish it from other kinds of fine-tuning.\n\nYour training data should be structured as examples with prompt inputs and expected response outputs. You can also tune models using example data directly in Google AI Studio. The goal is to teach the model to mimic the wanted behavior or task, by giving it many examples illustrating that behavior or task.\n\nWhen you run a tuning job, the model learns additional parameters that help it encode the necessary information to perform the wanted task or learn the wanted behavior. These parameters can then be used at inference time. The output of the tuning job is a new model, which is effectively a combination of the newly learned parameters and the original model.\n\nPrepare your dataset\n\nBefore you can start fine-tuning, you need a dataset to tune the model with. For the best performance, the examples in the dataset should be of high quality, diverse, and representative of real inputs and outputs.\n\nFormat\nNote: Fine-tuning only supports input-output pair examples. Chat-style multi-turn conversations are not supported at this time.\n\nThe examples included in your dataset should match your expected production traffic. If your dataset contains specific formatting, keywords, instructions, or information, the production data should be formatted in the same way and contain the same instructions.\n\nFor example, if the examples in your dataset include a \"question:\" and a \"context:\", production traffic should also be formatted to include a \"question:\" and a \"context:\" in the same order as it appears in the dataset examples. If you exclude the context, the model can't recognize the pattern, even if the exact question was in an example in the dataset.\n\nAs another example, here's Python training data for an application that generates the next number in a sequence:\n\ntraining_data = [\n  {\"text_input\": \"1\", \"output\": \"2\"},\n  {\"text_input\": \"3\", \"output\": \"4\"},\n  {\"text_input\": \"-3\", \"output\": \"-2\"},\n  {\"text_input\": \"twenty two\", \"output\": \"twenty three\"},\n  {\"text_input\": \"two hundred\", \"output\": \"two hundred one\"},\n  {\"text_input\": \"ninety nine\", \"output\": \"one hundred\"},\n  {\"text_input\": \"8\", \"output\": \"9\"},\n  {\"text_input\": \"-98\", \"output\": \"-97\"},\n  {\"text_input\": \"1,000\", \"output\": \"1,001\"},\n  {\"text_input\": \"10,100,000\", \"output\": \"10,100,001\"},\n  {\"text_input\": \"thirteen\", \"output\": \"fourteen\"},\n  {\"text_input\": \"eighty\", \"output\": \"eighty one\"},\n  {\"text_input\": \"one\", \"output\": \"two\"},\n  {\"text_input\": \"three\", \"output\": \"four\"},\n  {\"text_input\": \"seven\", \"output\": \"eight\"},\n]\n\n\nAdding a prompt or preamble to each example in your dataset can also help improve the performance of the tuned model. Note, if a prompt or preamble is included in your dataset, it should also be included in the prompt to the tuned model at inference time.\n\nLimitations\n\nNote: Fine-tuning datasets for Gemini 1.5 Flash have the following limitations:\n\nThe maximum input size per example is 40,000 characters.\nThe maximum output size per example is 5,000 characters.\nTraining data size\n\nYou can fine-tune a model with as little as 20 examples. Additional data generally improves the quality of the responses. You should target between 100 and 500 examples, depending on your application. The following table shows recommended dataset sizes for fine-tuning a text model for various common tasks:\n\nTask\tNo. of examples in dataset\nClassification\t100+\nSummarization\t100-500+\nDocument search\t100+\nUpload your tuning dataset\n\nData is either passed inline using the API or through files uploaded in Google AI Studio.\n\nTo use the client library, provide the data file in the createTunedModel call. File size limit is 4 MB. See the fine-tuning quickstart with Python to get started.\n\nTo call the REST API using cURL, provide training examples in JSON format to the training_data argument. See the tuning quickstart with cURL to get started.\n\nAdvanced tuning settings\n\nWhen creating a tuning job, you can specify the following advanced settings:\n\nEpochs: A full training pass over the entire training set such that each example has been processed once.\nBatch size: The set of examples used in one training iteration. The batch size determines the number of examples in a batch.\nLearning rate: A floating-point number that tells the algorithm how strongly to adjust the model parameters on each iteration. For example, a learning rate of 0.3 would adjust weights and biases three times more powerfully than a learning rate of 0.1. High and low learning rates have their own unique trade-offs and should be adjusted based on your use case.\nLearning rate multiplier: The rate multiplier modifies the model's original learning rate. A value of 1 uses the original learning rate of the model. Values greater than 1 increase the learning rate and values between 1 and 0 lower the learning rate.\nRecommended configurations\n\nThe following table shows the recommended configurations for fine-tuning a foundation model:\n\nHyperparameter\tDefault value\tRecommended adjustments\nEpoch\t5\t\n\nIf the loss starts to plateau before 5 epochs, use a smaller value.\n\nIf the loss is converging and doesn't seem to plateau, use a higher value.\n\n\nBatch size\t4\t\nLearning rate\t0.001\tUse a smaller value for smaller datasets.\n\nThe loss curve shows how much the model's prediction deviates from the ideal predictions in the training examples after each epoch. Ideally you want to stop training at the lowest point in the curve right before it plateaus. For example, the graph below shows the loss curve plateauing at about epoch 4-6 which means you can set the Epoch parameter to 4 and still get the same performance.\n\nCheck the tuning job status\n\nYou can check the status of your tuning job in Google AI Studio under the My Library tab or using the metadata property of the tuned model in the Gemini API.\n\nTroubleshoot errors\n\nThis section includes tips on how to resolve errors you may encounter while creating your tuned model.\n\nAuthentication\nNote: Starting September 30, 2024, OAuth authentication is no longer required. New projects should use API key authentication instead.\n\nTuning using the API and client library requires authentication. You can set up authentication using either an API key (recommended) or using OAuth credentials. For documentation on setting up an API key, see Set up API key.\n\nIf you see a 'PermissionDenied: 403 Request had insufficient authentication scopes' error, you may need to set up user authentication using OAuth credentials. To configure OAuth credentials for Python, visit our the OAuth setup tutorial.\n\nCanceled models\n\nYou can cancel a fine-tuning job any time before the job is finished. However, the inference performance of a canceled model is unpredictable, particularly if the tuning job is canceled early in the training. If you canceled because you want to stop the training at an earlier epoch, you should create a new tuning job and set the epoch to a lower value.\n\nLimitations of tuned models\n\nNote: Tuned models have the following limitations:\n\nThe input limit of a tuned Gemini 1.5 Flash model is 40,000 characters.\nJSON mode is not supported with tuned models.\nSystem instruction is not supported with tuned models.\nOnly text input is supported.\nWhat's next\n\nGet started with the fine-tuning tutorials:\n\nFine-tuning tutorial (Python)\nFine-tuning tutorial (REST)\nSend feedback\n\nExcept as otherwise noted, the content of this page is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License, and code samples are licensed under the Apache 2.0 License. For details, see the Google Developers Site Policies. Java is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates.\n\nLast updated 2025-04-16 UTC.\n\nTerms\nPrivacy",
  "updatedAt": "2025-05-13T03:19:57.609Z"
}